hey everybody it's saster i wanted to
bring back um one of the truly og
members of the sasha community brendan
cassidy to talk a bit about
sales in 2022 and beyond
uh brendan and i have worked together
since the dawn of sas well not really uh
but for quite a long time uh he was vp
of sales he was first head of head of
corporate sales at linkedin then our
head of sales back at adobe sign echo
sign then vp of sales at 10 billion talk
desk and he helped build the sales teams
at gong hacker rank a bunch of other
leaders and today
he's also co-ceo of a next generation
sas referral platform called coso which
we'll chat a little bit about
so um i think if you've been part of
sastra over the years if you came to
zero at sastra annual this year you've
read a lot of brendan's thoughts which
um i think have been many of the iconic
ones in building sales teams initially
inside sales now all sales teams and i i
just want to use this time to catch up
on as we leave the coveted world where
the heck sales is going to be so brendan
thanks for thanks for joining us today
yeah absolutely um excited to hear we're
leaving the covered world too so well
we're at least in the next 18 months i
think
it's hard to tell from my cottage you
know it doesn't necessarily give you
kind of that macro view but i i think i
think you're right yeah i mean
everything's changed from distributed
teams to sales tax to growth right it's
just not the world we're not in the
world at least in cloud in the south
we're not in the world we were before
coveted anymore are we it's a different
world
no i mean we're not i don't know that
that's just because of kobe like i think
it's
general sort of the sas
space in general but yeah kovid
certainly has helped accelerate some
things for sure
yeah
so let's chat um let's chat a little bit
first about hiring um because there's so
many sas companies today doing hiring
right
um want to chat about a couple of things
let's start um
let's go with like aes and sales teams
and then talk about our classic vp of
sales like uh that we've been chatting
about for years um
sales reps what
first let's talk about comp is there
have do you see inflation in sales reps
comps and how do we pay for some of the
high comp expectations of sales reps
there's only so many dollars that come
in for each deal right how much of that
50k deal can can we can we give more
than all of it to the sales reps like
how we how do you see inflation
um expectations going on with sales
teams if at all
yeah i mean i think i don't think
there's any secret you know there's no
it's not a accident that the bet usually
the best performing sales teams
pay their sales people really well right
yes
i'm a big believer in one plus one
equals two
um
and so you know everybody does it
differently obviously you know we've
done it we had a unique way we did it at
echo sign right and that actually worked
out really well
um but yes you have
to me
from from the view of a sales leader
having
some sales you know usually not every
sales person is making half a million
dollars right in startup
but having some sales people that just
absolutely crush it and are the highest
paid people in the company
is
almost all net good
you know from a you know they're
probably you're paying them a lot maybe
they're even overpaid but like
you know that there's a
there's a
you know cascading effect of that not
just within your own team but like
the your hiring brand and all the rest
right um
i think i think that you know to me it's
i don't know why people
um
there's a lot of companies that are
trying to
um
you know sort of cut cut cut at the
margins of that and i think it's like i
don't understand that mentality
because it's hard enough as it is but
like
when you're saying let's
how do we like pay the least amount for
the people that are the most successful
that kind of thing
um it just seems contradictory because
it is it's it's hard enough right i mean
like
you know most startups are not super
successful so it's like
you know and a lot of times it's the
ones that don't you know that are the
most confounding ones are like they
don't have a lot of successful sales
people so like why are you sitting
around thinking about how you can pay
your sales people less you know that
kind of thing
yeah
and most
that's that's the way i look at it i
want my
top salespeople to make a crapload of
money because
that's proof
for other people right and that's part
that becomes part of your hiring brand
of like you know certainly an echo sign
that was a big deal right we had you
know we were talking about this kid sam
blom making a you know
a ton of money and we're like go talk to
him ask him how much he makes you know
and for more experienced sales people
like right you know paul donati or riley
devine or others
you know that was big that was a big
deal they said hey if sam can make a lot
of money here i think i could make a lot
of money here not that they view
themselves as more talented sam by the
way but like
um it's proof right
because for sure in any startup
certainly startup i mean you know
there's a difference between you know a
10 person sales team and a you know 100
or 200 person team that's scaling but
like
yeah in any startup um
it sounds great everything sounds great
on the surface but
if you can if it's validated with proof
of success
that a certain certain person or a
certain type of person can be successful
it's a benchmark for
for good sales people right that's what
they're looking for they're gonna be
really hard to get a really good sale a
really good sale you know sales person
to come in
with no proof right like hey can i talk
to a sales person and sort of ask
you know how much they may you know how
how much they've closed how much they
make and you're like well we don't
really have anyone
we don't really have anyone that's done
that that's they're not coming you know
so
yeah the best people are more
risk-averse than ever i would say that's
a theme
yeah that maybe that's the meta point i
i was initially teasing on inflation and
maybe higher ote expectations for the
same attainment
but the meta issue is with so many sas
startups are successful the best folks
are more risk averse right in many cases
right or they're just they're delaying i
think 10 million is the new 1 million in
terms of risk for many folks isn't it
yeah
for sure and like you know there's a lot
of people doing now what i was doing
like four years ago right with five
years ago right which was like
you know you can
you can have a sort of a sort of
part-time or sort of advisory or
consulting role with a lot of different
companies
um and and first off do really well and
not have a lot of risk professional risk
in that um a lot of people are doing
that um
hopefully
i don't want to be uh hey brendan start
i don't i don't know that i started that
trend but there's a lot of people doing
it
there's a lot less
i'd say a lot more people who are less
experienced that you'd say hey like
huh you know like
usually it's somebody that's had like
you know some sort of big exit or win or
multiple wins or whatever it is but
you know the their you know brand is
currency and like you know there's a lot
of people that have
have created really strong brands as
like you know thought leaders but yeah
so those people you know there's a lot
of opportunity for those people they're
super risk averse
um
if they were to ask me hey should i be
risk reverse i'd say yeah you should
generally right
well that's an interesting related topic
the um
you're right there is um
there is a there's a much larger pool of
interim or consulting vps of sales and
others right marketers too than there
were just a few years ago right folks
that would like to help two or three
startups at a time
probably make 50 more cash than they
would with with a third of the stress
right when does that work
and and and when do you need to graduate
beyond that like when should you make
that trade-off when you don't have that
higher
yeah it depends on what kind of impact
you want right you want
you know do you want someone like me to
help like in like certain areas if you
could help us in this area
that and you know that getting help in
that area would be super creative to the
company
but then if you want like true bottom
line impact like you know i think it's
like some sort of like interim
come in for six months or 12 months
right
but you're you're either fully committed
or almost fully committed to the cause
so you have you know there's some
there's some skin in the game there
right i do a lot i think that can work
personally yeah um
and and whoever it is that's risk
reverse can sort of have
you know sort of two feet in but it
looks like they have one foot in
they preserve whatever the optics are
that they want but like
um i that's like a more committed role
hey like you're here you're here four
days a week or five days a week
and we want everything you can bring to
the table for the time that you're here
um i think that can work um
and i i would you know if you could get
a great person in and say
can you give us a year right
give us a year of the absolute best you
have
right like
i would do it you know if if that was
what it if that was the
you know those if that was the terms of
of that being possible i would do it um
versus saying let's not do it let's pass
on this on this
and let's go out and look for that
person but somebody that's willing to
put two feet in
in reality and optically
and then
the problem is is i view like these
sales leadership roles are like sort of
listing a house on the market right the
longer it's on the market
the more the harder it gets to fill it
because
you know there's more community within
the sales leadership community than ever
right yeah
you know with i've i've been a huge
proponent of it
that you have things like you know
revenue collective slash pavilion that
kind of stuff but like
you know there's more we help each other
more and we we
reference stuff off each other more and
so it's like huh why is this job been
you know
on the market for you know 120 days
right
and then people talk and then they're
like oh yeah i talked to them you know
like for whatever reason to take the job
and then even if they say good things
you're still like huh
well he you know she passed on it i
don't know
it has that sort of real estate kind of
you know sort of
parallel um you know it's a good market
why has it's been on the mark you know
why is this house been on the market for
150 days what's wrong
and that's there is that element of it
you know and i think that's
how do you deal with that i'm not
totally sure but like
i have ideas on how to deal with it but
you know
it's a good point that that is an issue
and there's a related one of being the
third or fourth vp of sales
that
were there but in today's world
they're much they're there there's much
more transparency around this and much
more sensitivity right and
um
maybe that is a good point if if it's
going to take you six months to hire a
vp of sales maybe don't ha don't have it
hang out there for six months right um
having an interim person can actually
help because they can manage it
so that it is not a stale listing right
if i were if i were a founder which i am
now by the way so
you know everything i say is advice to
founders really advice to myself but
um if i were a founder looking for a vp
of sales right now i would be
and i didn't you know i didn't have you
know a big network of sales leaders that
i knew or would you know
whatever the terms of the scenario are
like i would be meeting with people in a
sort of unofficial way you know sort of
like a
you know would love to learn about your
thoughts on like what type of person we
should hire
and you build this like almost like a
council right of
you know sort of people that you're
talking to and like you know and like
you're
that's what i would and you've always
sort of been a proponent of that but
like
that's you can't do it and say hey i'm
looking for a vp of sales can we talk
today you can have the conversation but
you you know
but now you just started the clock
picking you know yeah um versus when
you're you're sort of doing an
unofficial way
in your build you know you're building
relationships that you know there's no
immediate transaction to be had
and you know
like i think we'd all be better if we
did more things that didn't have a
immediate sort of transaction from one
to one place to another in everything we
did you know
generally you know
whoops sorry
um
i also see do you think
maybe detail point but let's let's talk
for a couple minutes
um
about vp of sales and let's talk about
selling but
i see a lot of folks with with the
bigger market i see a lot of responses
for candidates are
i'll sort of take that potential
position under advisement what i mean is
folks are looking at more and more
positions over more and more time
and i don't think this is bad whether in
reality or in their minds they have more
and more leverage over the startups
right um sometimes i think this is
delusional with some folks i know
sometimes i think it's it's reality
do you think if i if if a vp of sales or
similar doesn't fall in love with the
opportunity can you can you convince
them over time or should you move on
from these sort of folks that are
meeting with a hundred opportunities
yeah i think i think if you have if
you've built a relationship with that
person right yeah um where it's
appropriate that you can you know
continue to still
sort of you know check in and touch base
with them i mean you
so when i was like
when we were talking about ecosign you
were sending me emails forwarding the
emails
you know this is before i decided to do
it
even though i was i i wanted to do it
anyways but
you know you afford these emails about
like hey like you know here's a here's a
lead that came in today or here's a deal
we closed today
that kind of stuff right where you
weren't like selling it you're just
forwarding an email
and that that's proof right and that's
you know
you want to get a great vp of sales
you're going to have to somehow
take as much of the perceived risk off
the table somehow
um
while they while understanding that you
know there's risk period for whoever
that person is taking that job but that
kind of stuff it's about super
validating a lot of founders don't do it
yep right they don't they don't you know
so like you're having a sort of an
unofficial conversation with somebody
maybe you're not explicitly like
recruiting them to be your vp of sales
but like that's an opportunity for you
to you know like maybe they're advising
you on you know like
whatever the capacity is but like you
know where you're you're giving them
more proof points that this is a real a
real thing
with real opportunity and success and
then you know
and that can take a long time um
but i would do it and that's that's a
general i think
rule of thumb
is you should do more things that are
you know you can't always play the short
game
you know and everything we do and i
think that's you know it's really hard
to
view the world that way but like
you should there should be a lot of
things you're doing that like
are strategic that you know will
not
produce some sort of outcome immediately
and or even in a week or maybe even in a
month or
whatever there should be a lot of things
you're doing around that stuff
as a founder
you know i'm learning all that stuff by
the way
i'm learning a lot of things
the first time uh founder
co-founder that you know
that's uh it's been yeah a lot there's
it's been a great an awesome experience
and uh
yeah it makes you resp certainly makes
me respect the founder experience even
more than i did quite frankly
let's get to that just next to just one
other thing i wanted let's wrap up this
part of the convo but before we started
you and i had a really interesting
conversation about a tough topic
which is being topped
and one of the toughest scenarios both
for an executive and this founders
are when you have someone on your team
and it's clear
you need someone above them you have a
vp sales you need a cro you need a cmo
we can talk about sales in particular
and you had an interesting insight about
how that's changed and maybe what's your
general advice on handling phase
transitions right as you scale
i mean yeah i mean there's obviously
there's different scenarios of when and
why you're talking somebody right like
sometimes it's because you guys have
done incredibly well
right it's like we want to go to the
next step and we want to go public and
you know
we just think having somebody with more
experience there you know will help us
in those areas but we don't want to
really change
almost anything we're doing kind of
day-to-day
and i think in those scenarios um it's
super important to keep you know keep
your keep the people there that did it
built it
and happy
um
so i'll use an example so when the
sierra for gone went there
um you know
he came in he had been on linkedin and
he's like what one piece of advice would
you give me i said just make
jameson happy
that's the piece of advice i mean he's
got this incredible team they're
incredibly loyal to him right and like
just you know make him feel you know
make him feel good set up for success
and
all the rest because there's you know
there's not you know
it's working really well right yeah so
you look at that team they're all there
right that they're all that they're all
there all the people that built it the
sales over there and so i give that
ryan cro i give him a lot of credit uh i
would look at outreach
as another example right it's all well
and good to say i see trends in the
market but like
it's really happening right you look at
mark uh mark the the vp of sales for
outreach he was there from almost day
one yeah and
so you keep that
culture
as long as they're you know they're
motivated and all that kind of stuff
and it's important you know and i think
if you look at
you look at the alternative scenario
it's usually worse right no it's almost
always work if they've if they've done
well and they leave it's almost always
worse right
if
yeah if they've done well and you bring
somebody in and they come in and they're
like
yeah i'm coming in here to basically
tell this person that i'm better than he
or she is
and that i can get better people in here
than he or she did yeah then that's
that's over right um
and by the way they can't
right the amount of like
you know sort of sweat equity and
intellectual capital that's been built
there with that team
is not replaceable most of the time
um
and so yeah that that would be one
learning
i don't know that there's a massive
sample size to support it but like
you know what i i think that's i think
it's real you know
and how do you how do you and when and
how
do you have that conversation with your
vps of sales and others is it is it a
regular check-in do you spring it on
them
that that one the springing on them i
think is always is sub-optimal than
having had a check-in right
um but folks also folks react to it they
have emotional reactions in many cases
too right yeah i mean it it's if i think
if you're a founder or ceo that
has some experience right because if you
have no experience
it's probably going to be hard to know
unless you have some really smart people
around you
with a lot of experience on how to
handle it but like yeah earlier the
earlier the better like i don't you know
i feel like
you know
you can say hey like i'm you know
love everything you're doing and i feel
like you know we're on this great track
to get to 20 million
and i feel like beyond that here are the
things that i think are things we need
to right
like
these are things that i don't think you
that i don't think you can do there are
things i want to know that you can do
and i think these are some of the areas
that we you know we want to be prepared
for 20 million
right that indicate that all of us can
take the next step yeah that's that's
how i'd have the conversation got it and
so they're aware and then when you get
to this point it's not like oh by the
way i need you to hire a hundred person
field sales team
or i need you to hire somebody to run
europe or whatever it is they're like oh
um
i don't really know anyone who can do
that
so yeah
preparation for that i think is good and
then if you get there
and you've been
and then it's like okay clearly i don't
think this person
can can handle all the things that we
need to do now for the next whatever
then you do it and it's and then
it's not it doesn't come as a shock
that person i think they're more likely
to stay you know
and it's it's almost never done that way
it isn't it's almost always mishandled
in some level right
yeah
and do you think one last question on
this and let's talk about sales tools
and sales vendors but
do you think flat bookings is the clear
sign you've waited too long to
to
to add a more senior person in the
position is flat bookings for a quarter
to the sign or is that not a sign
well i think there's things that are
ahead of that that you know would result
in that you know which is
i mean obviously you have to look at
like
you know they're like can we scale
you know sort of demand as a company
right to support the growth yep and you
know our you know can we you know get
more revenue out of our existing
customers so there's a lot there there
are other factors there
but like you should have
if there's an issue there and one any
one of those areas like
you should have visibility pretty
quickly and like absolute at least
solutions
receive solutions to those problems
before they uh you know sort of fit the
board meetings kind of thing you know
um
yeah
so cool well let's talk a little bit
about
tools and and what you've learned at co
selling in the market
um but at a high level
now that we're we're in sort of sas
sales 3.0 or some some new some evolving
new world what parts of the good
old-fashioned sales toolkit aren't
working as well anymore what's decaying
in terms of its efficacy with so many
vendors and so many solutions
um
what's not working
yeah i think uh i mean i think
i don't think anything's not working
enough to say you shouldn't do it
anymore but like definitely like i think
there's been this massive shift in the
last you know 10 11 years from like
you know mark you know and this is
important you know because it used to be
when you talked about how do we grow how
do we drive
growth and opportunity that used to be
oh we'll talk to the market you know
talk to the vp of marketing that's her
problem right
um it's not anymore right it's very much
a shared burden between marketing and
sales
and so you've seen this big shift from
like marketing owns it to sales sort of
owns it almost entirely
around like going outbound through like
outreach and sales loft and all that
kind of stuff
and all these you know sort of
tools around optimizing that stuff
whether it's
emails calls
and all the rest that go into it i i
think those
personally and i've seen this trend for
a while but and that's part of why i'm
doing coast health but like those aren't
working as well period
um
trying to like
inundate the market with just this
massive amount of like quasi
personalized communication right
everyone's wise to it now
and
you just can't mass produce that
and have and have success
in my opinion to expect to succeed
all the way to the finish line on the
backs of that are not it's not enough
um that's my opinion and that's
that's why i'm doing this it's just
the whole thing the cosal missive is
you know is we just want to make it easy
for people to get referrals and warm
introductions
from people that
can help and are willing to help them um
of which we have people like that around
us period
and so it's like it's it's low-hanging
fruit
that we you know that we just choose not
to
pick
and that's not a good equation for
success in my opinion and i think that's
in our conversations that we've had by
the way this is not an ad for cosell but
like that's what every vp of sales i
talk to
complete there's no argument right
there's certainly an argument about how
do you do it
or a discussion around how do you do it
or how do you do it most optimally but
it's like what's the problem there's no
there's it's 100 consensus
that the sort of you know sort of brute
force growth model
is not going to
you know sort of ring the bell the 12th
round you know
yep
so let's step back because let's spend
our last couple minutes on that i liked
your insight because i tend to be a
little binary
and that's that that can but it's it's
more subtle i think your point is that
is that the efficacy of some of this
pseudo-personalized playbook is decaying
but that doesn't mean don't do it it
just means it's not as you got to do it
it just means you can't count on it the
way you could have a couple of years ago
right so i think that's an interesting
insight you should be running you got to
run all these playbooks you just have to
add to the playbooks because their
efficacy is decayed right
yeah it's there's sort of three you know
three eras i look at it you've like and
they're all
they're all in parallel really but like
you have marketing you have sort of the
marketing demand era
you can't just do that now you need to
do sort of outbound or brute force in
our and you know
our belief is and you know
that will strengthen that that will
that'll be proven right or wrong over
time is that you know sort of referral
selling is like the last you know
referrals and introductions
is sort of the last untapped channel
there right
um
and so that's that's our belief but like
yeah i mean it's certainly been the last
five or six years
you know what one thing i i was saying
to somebody the other day that they
completely disagreed with me on by the
way
and actually took personal
took it personally and like got upset at
me about it yeah which only validated i
was right for but
but like
is there's less dependence on salesforce
which is not this is not a slighted
sales force at all but like companies in
the sales cloud are less dependent on
salesforce
to
um than ever maybe right like
to like to create sort of categories and
many brands and
you know sort of customer success and
acquisition yes i don't know exactly
what the answer
the why of that is but like
that's a that's
you go back 10 years right you remember
well the world's changed if you look at
revenue or market cap salesforce has
grown incredibly right to almost 200
billion but its share of
total revenue yeah and total market cap
ha is half of what it was five years ago
just because the rest of the cloud got
so big right so salesforce hasn't shrunk
i've never heard it described that way
yeah it's just the rest got so much
bigger that you could make you can
attach to shopify you can attach to
other ecosystems and that back when
things were smaller that was it that was
the only game in town right so
salesforce
and salesforce is also focused they're
not they're focused on the marketing
cloud and service cloud and other things
right yeah i mean
sales is one of their smaller clouds now
even service cloud is much bigger and
that's probably a pretty good
explanation for it but like yeah you
know that's also like you know that's an
opportunity there right i think
yeah
but yeah that's but let's go back let's
before we went out of time let's go back
you made some interesting points
and so
we have
in terms of the evolution of what sales
has to do to hit the number right um and
we go from demand gen
to getting better and better at
traditional outbound right but it's
still cold outbound is still cold so
something that's interesting about coast
cell and other solutions is you're
turning cold into warmish right because
a referral
is a warm intro right and that is
profound that and abm is some weird term
that has gone out of fashion but i still
think abm is just better outbound right
to me abm is actually writing one email
not writing
that goes to one person that you've
researched rather than
then then rinse wash and repeat and you
still need to do that playbook but abm
is also decaying a bit right because
it's not white i think it's and warm is
interesting because warm warm is warm is
powerful right i think the intention of
abm was all correct right yeah but i
think it's like on some level there
there's a required behavioral change
right then not everything is about sort
of like how do i load up you know a
crapload of data
and click send and just expect it to do
the you know heavy lifting for me
um which is like that's the that's the
fantasy of like a lot of these products
right yeah that you can just oh like you
don't even need to do it yourself just
load it up you know it'll do it for you
um and i i've always believed like
you know like
when even a cold email if i send a cold
email to somebody in my career
that's like the amount of research i put
into that the amount of time i spent
thinking about
what my approach or the angle is
is
you know
there's a lot of time spent on that like
yeah hey what's the angle so that if
we're going to do this that it gives us
the absolute
best chance
to result in something
so like
we're at an era where like you need to
start thinking that way it's like how do
i what is the most strategic way that i
can engage with a customer not just like
what is the easiest
like you know sort of mass-produced way
that i can i can try to interact with
customers
and so you know we we're sort of we're
sort of at that
we're right there
we're on the on the bat on the front
lines of that sort of discussion
and uh you know and so like
it's an it's a needed behavioral change
there's generally pretty good consensus
around that
um and i think
you know
most meaningful in my in my experience
most meaningful products that i've
worked with or sold
there was a pretty there was a
behavioral change component to it right
yeah
it's not just hey we do x just three
percent better than y right
um anyways yeah and so just briefly then
i want to hit one more last thing and
then we'll break but
so how does how does cosell
help create that warm referral that that
sort of that that outbound plus plus how
does how does it work in practice
yeah so we like
we're not we've definitely evolved a bit
from day one i would say day one we were
like
more
sort of like cross beam-ish right
which by the way i like i think
cross-beams cool product
um that's not what we do um so there's
still some people out there that think
we do what they do and we don't but like
we allow companies to basically like
create
you know sort of private sort of
referral networks where they can
essentially invite anybody into their
network that they can sort of connect
with and sell through so that could be
an investor advisor
influencer anybody that has a network
that has some vested interest in your
success
um or some incentive to participate
can you can connect with them
and sort of bring them into your co-cell
network um
and so we've made it which
doesn't maybe sound that easy it's
actually pretty easy to do
um and so
you know it's
you know so for instance like you know
outreach is a customer going as a
customer high spots are customers these
are all early customers
and
you know the vision is hey you know
let's imagine outreach was an a round
company today right
what would be the most strategic go to
market path they could take right well
you know would be
who's around us right that has we have
our investors we have our advisors
we have all the people that you know
have some you know some vested interest
in our success we can sort of bring them
in and connect with them and then find
out
you know where where does who we want to
sell to intersect with who they know
and we've made it and done it in a way
in which our you know customers own that
network
and it gets bigger and better over time
and you know it's our belief that this
is going to be table stakes you know in
12 to 18 months
and who's using it is it the vp of sales
is it sales op is it individual aes so
like it's it's really driven so far
there's a lot of learning by the way for
us to still to come but
you know vp of sales drives it in some
cases vp of sales is driving sort of
introductions yeah other cases it's like
rvp's right so like gong's gonna have
all their like you know sort of rvp
equivalents kind of
sort of driving it and really in a way
it's like
you know it's
how can our sales organization help
carry some of the load right
um
you know at least within sort of
strategic
and substantive you know potential
customers for us
is this is a way for them to do that
right and that by the way is another
behavioral change
that's you know probably required right
where
you can't just say hey sdr team you own
a hundred percent of the demand jam
burden
um that's part i think that's part of
the problem
um and so yeah but yeah with us
any company that like wants to referral
sell
um they can just start sort of inviting
their anyone you know investors advisors
anyone
um to sort of join their network and
then they can see hey like you know
jason knows the vp of sales at adobe or
whatever it is right
and we do it in a way in which so we
have these sort of two
two profiles sellers and co-sellers
which is not the best in my opinion the
best
sort of verbiage around that but sellers
are our customers co-sellers are
you know whomever the sort of referrer
the gatekeeper is to that relationship
and um
yeah like the arnold's gonna roll it out
with
all their investors all their advisors
and that's
powerful right there's powerful you know
like
how much how much reasonable there's a
lot
yep
um and that's that's what we believe
right is that there's all this
low-hanging fruit around us
that that know people that are of
strategic value for us that we don't
even
we just ignore and we go and we do more
difficult and lower roi things
and we just uh
that's that's the vision that we have
just make it hey easier to be much more
strategic in how we go to market hopes
up
that's great yeah i think we have to
keep
recruit adding
smarter and smarter
strategies as these classic ones just
decline in the fcc and we've got we've
got to leverage it right our customers
are like so so we shouldn't lose sales
loft i'm like no you just absolutely use
sales loft don't just use sales trend
or outreach that's not good enough right
yeah we just got to add to it to hit
anybody five years ago you know like
outreach was probably saying don't just
do marketing right you know like
you got to do more than that
i think at that point now where it's
like
you know it's just it has to happen like
there's no
you know even like sdr leaders who you
think would be like oh this is
potentially a threat to me
even sdr leaders are like the best
geology sdr leaders i know are looking
at this they're like yeah there's just
no choice
we have to
and i'm one of the best sdr leaders in
the world and i can see that
everything's getting harder and
you know declining response rates
declining engagement
so there's no we don't have a choice we
have to go down this path
um
and so that's what we believe
yeah last i want to wrap this up that's
good i find that you know everyone i
think that's
everyone learned we have to have an
outbound team right that's table stakes
for anyone but the small the tiniest
vendors
but i also have learned i've also
observed that the teams have to get
better and better because the crappy
playbook
sometimes it doesn't work at all the sdr
leaders have to be really good to and
i'm not an expert to bring in those big
deals to break through the noise they
need to be smarter and better than ever
to break out in many cases
yeah if you
like the reality is in a start in most
startups as a vp of sales you're going
to have to be super involved and help
out sdr stuff right yeah it doesn't work
and training and like by the way the
number of vps or sales that actually
want
to be in the weeds on that stuff is like
0.00 right
like it's
which is it's it's just it's it's sucks
in the worst way right because
you're like oh great like this 23 year
old kid made a great call today this
person that rejected them and then
god i'm really not that close to revenue
right now am i you know like
it's just not where you want to be and
there's certainly there's some that
somehow some that are great at it but
like
you know it's and so people are like oh
well i could have i'll just hire for
weight sdr leader no
there's like it's that's brutal heart
right like
it's a really really hard hire like
you know i was talking to this guy kevin
dorsey the other day he was at a patient
pop he's like yeah i would consider one
of the best like you know sort of sdr
leaders maybe in the world
and he's just like dude it's so hard now
he's like it's really hard it's never
been harder and like
and so yeah but there's there's a small
list of people
that i that are like on my list that i'd
be like that's who i know i can fire
that can
go figure that thing out
and almost entirely
um because yeah nobody wants to spend a
ton of their time
on like you know setting up outreach or
sales loft and like
writing these like outbound sdr scripts
and all this you know
it's just that's not what it you know
that's not what and that's why most the
best vp's of sales a lot the first
question they ask is how many leads do
you have a month right inbound leads
yeah and when the answer is zero they're
like cool all right um
[Music]
immediately they've been
well maybe that's an interesting point
we should we can wrap on um which is
that
it's interesting that
because it's because it's harder because
the mass
campaign the low the nuts and bolts
approach works
not as well a vp sales has to be more
involved right
and they don't want to right and i think
it's a good reminder one of the biggest
flags i see when i meet vps of sales
candidates one flag is when they don't
really have that experience right
because it's tough to get on the job
right but the bigger flag is when they
say they're going to go find a director
of inside sales right a director of
outbound right
that's their answer to the issue right
yeah it indicate it's yeah when you see
somebody that doesn't understand what
the burden is right yeah
like that's when it's like okay maybe
not right because
if you don't understand like i have to
go in and we have to literally create
from nothing
all this outbound demand and interest if
they don't understand how hard that is
like
you know that's not a good sign right
it indicates that they've never had that
verb right
like versus somebody that does
understand how hard it is and maybe
they're just like i don't know that i
want to put myself through that right
now
um
i would rather talk to that person
because at least they they understand
how hard it is
just like with any with any good sales
leader most of the best sales leaders i
know
are
pretty humble
quite frankly like they understand that
like
they're you know it wasn't just about
them and that they were you know
there's timing and luck and other
elements involved
that are real
in some cases right like
people ask me about linkedin all the
time and i
one of the things i say is like the team
we had at ecoci
was so much better
by the way there were some great people
on our team linkedin by the way
phenomenal people have had great success
but overall the team we had at echo sign
was way better
it was a way better team generally
almost everywhere right
but like you know we didn't have this
you know sort of self-serve like opt-in
you know sort of network right
where people were just like yeah i'm
gonna put my profile here you know like
um
and so like but that team was better
right and like just the reality is it's
like you know linkedin was this network
that was super viral they didn't have to
spend any money to build it quite
frankly
and that's you know that was the most
you know sort of enduring thing then and
now right
it's the ra the virality of it and all
that kind of stuff right but like that's
luck mostly right
like i think i think i did some good
things there by the way but like
you know the
the level of difficulty
you know in other things i've done was
much higher quite frankly right
yeah linkedin was relatively easy
because you had this data set that was
just like yeah here's
more
you know and they're like oh i don't
have to convince you to come no no we're
just going to come
and we're going to keep that data fresh
for about 20 years is that okay
so that's like you know that was that's
on the scale it's easy i mean there were
definitely some super you know super
tough
important decisions we made earlier that
were right i think
but like um yeah that's what i would say
got it
and talk desk in the early days top
tests there were some hard hard times
there
like when you know when the you know
when you were like hey the phone doesn't
work right like
we're selling this call center solution
right but the phone doesn't work what do
we do then
so those were some those were those were
some challenging early days that
obviously got fixed but
yeah i think there's you know there is a
there's an element of luck in everything
to do and timing and all the rest right
you know
it's not just their greatness
that they've got you know sort of
accomplished everything that they that's
happened for them so yeah all right
let's wrap it up with one more fun thing
just to tie together some of these
themes
beyond anything we've chatted about now
what are some of the things that the
best sales teams do to beat the others
in a competitive space what are just a
couple things that they do
that you're like crap they want they won
that deal again and again but their
product actually isn't better what are a
couple quick insights that we can wrap
that you see the best folks do
that just the good or the mediocre don't
do as well
um
i think the best sales orbs in like
competitive selling just have this
just crystal clear black and white
understanding of why you know why why do
we why should we win
what are the reasons that we should win
and eat them in a deal and what are the
reasons that they should beat us
right and and so they know you know like
you know what all the sort of you know
what their playbook is you know what
your playbook is and then you sort of
understand that it's going to be it's a
battle
you know it's a battle for a mindset
like certainly an echo sign who said hey
we know if the deal is about this we win
and we know if the deals about these
other 20 things
that it could be about we know that they
were right so we we just said we're
going to make this entirely about this
everything that happens in the sales
cycle will be centered around this
narrative
and we will not
we will not be pushed off that mark at
any point
um
and
that you know
and so
the other guys are like hey we have all
this other stuff
and we're like none of it matters the
only thing that matters is this
um
and so i think that's the
i think realizing
what you're not just what your strengths
are but what your weaknesses are
and then weaponizing that
before
your
competitor exposes it as a liability
right
taking
why do why should we lose okay we if we
know why we should lose and why they
should guess
then we know that you know like okay
then we know that we need to make the
narrative about this and we need to
minimize the impact of the other 20
things
and everything that we do
um
and i think that works you know like
um yeah i mean i think
yes
i was talking to a friend at adobe the
other day i said i wonder would be like
if we all came back in you know
obviously docusign's worth like 60
billion dollars now
could we re reframe the narrative
because that's really that's what it is
right it's like hey like if you know how
your competition is attacking you
then that's
and so you know i thought we did a
pretty good job of understanding hey we
know that they're attacked this is how
their attack is we know that this is
where
our flank is exposed
um
and i think a lot most sales
organizations don't
understand that they don't want to
understand i think in some cases right
sometimes it's easier to sell
and not you know not and ignore
what your weaknesses are or where your
vulnerabilities are
and like we call it flying blind right
but like
i think that's the best competitive
sales organizations
knew it inherently like they they knew
that they knew everything that their
competition was going to do and that was
already baked into
their playbook right
it's a good time
all right brandon thanks so much for
catching up this was great yeah
let's sell together with our partners
and vendors at cosal.com right let's get
let's get let's let's add on to our tool
kit which we still need to do the old
stuff but it's just not working as well
guys you got it got to do that we gotta
do it we gotta add it gotta do the
marketing too yeah we gotta do the
demand and we gotta do it our goal in
2022 is we gotta add a few layers we
gotta add a few new systems and
processes to reach the flooded mar the
fatigue markets right um so yeah good
insight my friend all right we'll chat
with you soon